

           We are living in a fast-pacing world where technology is integrating itself in a lot of industries such as the financial industry. Technology is decentralizing the financial world. Ripple is one of the companies that is leading in the FinTech and crypto landscape. Ripple was incorporated in 2012 under the name Opencoin and renamed Ripple Labs in 2015 and it was co-founded by Chris Larsen and Jed McCaleb. The idea of the Ripple project came about the need to improve the global payments’ infrastructure because as we know, the current infrastructure does not meet today’s business or consumer demands. By integrating blockchain and digital asset technology into the financial system, Ripple plans to improve the speed and cost of how people make transactions around the world. The company is funded by the sales of the XRP cryptocurrency as well as providing professional services to financial network operators integrated with Ripple. 
           Nowadays, the traditional banking system is lacking in speed and expensive in cost. For instance, if you want to transfer a personal check between banks it normally takes about 1-6 days. In addition, if you want to do an ACH transfer, it takes about 2-3 days and if you want to do a wire transfer, it takes a couple of hours to reflect on the recipient’s account. However, with Ripple, has a decentralized infrastructure which makes it extremely fast to send a payment (3 seconds). Furthermore, Ripple never has a transfer fee because it never has an issuer. Therefore, it is extremely cheap to transact (literally fractions of a cent). Python, Go, C++, Rust, and Blockchain are some of the popular tools that integrate with Ripple. 
           This company is dominating the crypto landscape, which has been on a bullish trend throughout the years due to its innovative way in making transactions. Plus, it is worth stating that the crypto landscape is also integrating itself in the mainstream media, hence, more and more people are learning more about Ripple and crypto in general. The other major competitors to Ripple are Stellar (XLM), Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC) and PayPal. 
           Ripple has impacted the financial world by accelerating global financial inclusion for unbanked populations through blockchain technology. Ripple is also committed to a greener future by using cleaner, renewable energy and innovative carbon removal technology to reduce the climate impact of global finance unlike Bitcoin which uses about 3.9B Gallons/100M BTC txns. Some of the metrics that the crypto landscape utilizes to measure success are auditability (which eliminates mistakes), data management (which improves product forecasting), data security (which prevents data breaches), elimination of duplicate payments, etc. Ripple is outperforming the other crypto assets like Stellar, Litecoin, Zcash, in terms of the scalability that it has in comparison to the other assets. It is also outperforming in terms of speed because like I mentioned, it takes about 3 seconds to complete a transaction as opposed to Bitcoin which takes about 15 minutes to complete. Cost is also a big factor in the outperformance that Ripple has towards the other crypto assets because it cost a fraction of a cent to make a transaction. You could literally send a million dollars through Ripple for couple of cents. 
           If I were to advise Ripple in order to maximize profits, I would tell them that it is better for them to decentralize their financial system given that DeFi was the goal of the crypto landscape in the first place. Now, Ripple owns 60% of all XRP. Decentralization would eventually give back power to the people by giving people the opportunity to mine XRP. In addition, Ripple should burn half of its XRP tokens in order to make it scarcer and hence increase the price of the token to increase capital. Finally, privacy is one of the best features of crypto assets. However, Ripple XRP lacks privacy. If they use ring signatures, stealth addresses, and ring confidential transactions to hide the transaction’s sender, receiver, and amount they would better protect the sender’s/ receiver’s identity and privacy which is crucial for us citizens because it is, after all, our fourth amendment right. 



“Global Payment Solutions - Instant Processing.” Ripple, 26 Feb. 2021, www.ripple.com/. 
“Why Developers like Ripple.” StackShare, www.stackshare.io/ripple. 
Soffar, Heba. “Ripple, RippleNet, XRP Review, Function, Advantages & Disadvantages.” Science Online, 14 Sept. 2019, www.online-sciences.com/cryptocurrency/ripple-ripplenet-xrp-review-function-advantages-disadvantages/. 
“What The Hell Is Monero: A Currency That Keeps Your Anonymity Safe.” Skalex.io, 7 May 2020, www.skalex.io/what-is-monero/. 
